# Personalize Admin GUI

You can personalize the interface and tables of the GUI by serving a static JSON configuration file. For this, head to the `parameters.tfvars` file, and paste your JSON configuration here:

```hcl
static = {
  gui_configuration = { # GUI config here... } 
}
```

You can download your configuration via the `Settings` page of the GUI, in the **Export your data** section. Then, you just have to copy and paste the JSON provided to you by the application. The configuration will only work for the `gui_configuration` key.

Users can still modify and save their local applications. It will not change the server configuration.

## Differentiate environments

It's important to be able to differentiate environments, to be able to rapidly identify which environment you are working on. This is especially important when you are working on multiple environments at the same time to avoid confusion and mistakes.

In order to achieve this differentiation, we serve a file called `environment.json` that you can access at `/static/environment.json`.


```{note}


In the [Admin GUI](https://github.com/aneoconsulting/ArmoniK.Admin.GUI), we use this file to display the environment name and version in the top middle.

```

### Content of the `environment.json` file

This file contains the following keys:

```json
{
  "name": "<string>",
  "description": "<string>",
  "color": "<string>",
  "version": "<string>"
}
```



```{note}


You can use any valide CSS color in the `color` key. [Read more about CSS colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value).

```

### Personalize the `environment.json` file

You can personalize the content of the file but you need to keep the `name`, `description`, `color` and `version` keys. If you change the name of the keys, the [Admin GUI](https://github.com/aneoconsulting/ArmoniK.Admin.GUI) will not be able to read the file.

In your `parameters.tfvars` (in `armonik` layer or in the `all-in-one`), you can update the `environment.description` key to serve different content for each environment.

```hcl
environment_description = {
  name  = "aws-dev"
  version = "0.1.0"
  description = "AWS environment"
  color = "#80ff80"
}