# Glossary

Here is an alphabetically sorted list to help you understand every term you might encounter in the ArmoniK project:

## ActiveMQ

Open source message broker written in Java used as the tasks queue.

For more information, check [ActiveMQ documentation](https://activemq.apache.org/)

## CLA

Contributor License Agreement, Contribution agreement in the form of a license that everyone contributing to a given project must sign. One CLA  is to be signed per repository.

You may read the CLA [here](https://gist.github.com/svc-cla-github/d47e32c1e81248bde8fee5aec9c8f922)

## Client

User-developed software that communicates with the ArmoniK Control Plane to submit a list of tasks to be executed (by one or several workers) and retrieves results and error.

## Compute Plane

Agreed term designating the set of compute pods, i.e., the pods running a Scheduling Agent + Worker pair within the Kubernetes cluster.

## Container

A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. (see Docker [documentation](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container/))

## Control Plane

Agreed term designating two different things depending on the context. Kubernetes and ArmoniK each have a Control Plane.
* The Kubernetes Control Plane is a set of components that manage global decision-making for the cluster, as well as the detection and management of cluster events.
* the ArmoniK Control Plane is a set of applications that act as a bridge between the *client* and the Compute Plane. In particular, it handles communications between certain components such as the queue, Redis and MongoDB.

## Data dependency

Input data for a given task that depends on another unique task. Data dependencies formalize dependencies between tasks.

## Data Plane

Expression designating the set of software components running the various storage and database systems within ArmoniK.

## Fluentbit

Log and metrics monitoring tool, optimized for scalable environments.
For more information, check [Fluentbit's documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual)

## HPA

Horizontal Pod Autoscaler : a Kubernetes module to automatically update the amount of resources to allocate based on the current workload.

For more information, check [Kubernetes documentation about HPA](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)

## Grafana

Data visualization web application. Used to monitor resources and statistics in ArmoniK.

For more information, check [Grafana's documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/)

## gRPC

Open source framework capable of running on different platforms, computer or server, and can communicate between these different environments . Remote Procedure Call was made by Google originally.

For more information, check [gRPC's website](https://grpc.io/docs/)

## Ingress

API object that manages external access to the services in a cluster, typically HTTP. Ingress may provide load balancing, SSL termination and name-based virtual hosting.

For more information, check [Kubernetes documentation about Ingress](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/intro/overview/)

## KEDA

Kubernetes Event-driven Autoscaler : this component exposes custom metrics external to Kubernetes. The HPA can have accesss to it

For more information, check [KEDA's documentation](https://keda.sh/docs/)

## Kubernetes

Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration engine for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications. The open source project is hosted by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation ([CNCF](https://www.cncf.io/about))

For more information, check [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/)

## MongoDB

MongoDB is a document database designed for ease of application development and scaling.
For more information, check [MongoDB's documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/).

## Node

In the context of Kubernetes, a node is a machine that runs containerized workloads as part of a Kubernetes cluster. A node can be a physical or virtual machine hosted in the cloud or on-premise.

## NuGet

The name can be used to refer to the **package manager** using the .NET framework or the **packages** themselves. These packages contain code from other developers that you may download and use.
For more information, check the [NuGet documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/)

## Partition

Logical segmentation of the Kubernetes cluster's pool of machines to distribute workloads according to usage. This feature is provided and handled by ArmoniK.

## Payload

Input data for a task that does not depend on any other task. This is the actual binary input of a task.

## Pod

Pods are the smallest deployable units of computing that one can create and manage in Kubernetes. A Pod is a group of one or more containers, with shared storage and network resources and a specification for how to run the containers. A Pod's contents are always co-located and co-scheduled and run in a shared context. A Pod models an application-specific "logical host": it contains one or more application containers which are relatively tightly coupled (see Kubernetes [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)).

## Polling agent

Former name of the scheduling agent.

## Prometheus

Toolkit that collects and stores time series data from the different systems. These data can be visualized with Grafana for monitoring.
For more information, check [Prometheus documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/)

## Redis

Redis is an open source (BSD licensed), in-memory data structure store used as a database, cache, message broker and streaming engine. Redis provides data structures such as strings, hashes, lists, sets and sorted sets with range queries, bitmaps, hyperloglogs, geospatial indexes and streams. Redis has built-in replication, Lua scripting, LRU eviction, transactions and different levels of on-disk persistence and provides high availability via Redis Sentinel and automatic partitioning with Redis Cluster (see [Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/about/)).

In ArmoniK, Redis is used as a key-value cache for task data (such as payloads and results).

## Scheduling agent

Containerized software cohabiting with a worker within a pod, running a specific algorithm to determine which tasks "its" worker (the one with which it shares the pod) should perform. It also manages all interactions between the worker and the databases (retrieving/saving data, creating new tasks, etc.), as well as managing worker errors and retrying/resubmitting failed tasks when necessary. A scheduling agent, like a worker, exists within a single partition.

## Session

A session is a logical container for tasks and associated data (task statut, results, errors, etc). Every task is submitted within a session. An existing session can be resumed to retrieve data or submit new tasks. When a session is cancelled, all associated executions still in progress are interrupted.

## Seq

Logs aggregator software. Used in ArmoniK to identify and aggregate errors and information from the different components.

For more information, check [Seq's documentation](https://docs.datalust.co/docs)

## Submitter

Containerized software in charge of submitting tasks, i.e., writing the corresponding data to the various databases (queue, Redis and MongoDB).

## Task

Atomic computation taking one or several input data and outputting one or several results. A task is launched by a client and processed by a worker. In ArmoniK, tasks cannot communicate with each other. They can, however, depend on each other via their input/output data, known as data dependency.

## Worker

User-developed containerized software capable of performing one or several tasks depending on its implementation.  A worker can simply take input data and perform calculations on it to return a result. A worker can also submit new tasks that will be self-performed, or by different workers, other instances of itself.

## Workload

Set of computational tasks
