# WSL2 with systemd

::alert{type="warning"}
This installation method is not recommended for production environments.
::

This installation will use the new `systemd` support of WSL2. You must verify that your Windows version is compatible with `systemd` support (WSL: Version 0.67.6 and above).

::alert{type="info"}
You must have installed WSL2 and Ubuntu LTS (22.04 or above) before continuing. If you haven't, please refer to the [WSL2 installation](./0.installation-using-wsl2.md) method.
::

## Enable `systemd` support

Then, you will need to enable `systemd` support. In fact, ArmoniK uses Kubernetes which requires `systemd`.

To enable `systemd` support, you must start your Ubuntu distribution and add these lines to the `/etc/wsl.conf` file (you will need sudo privileges):

```text [wsl.conf]
[boot]
systemd=true
```

::alert{type="info"}
Read more about `systemd` support on the [Microsoft documentation](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/systemd-support-is-now-available-in-wsl/).
::

Then you must restart your Ubuntu distribution in order to apply the changes.

```powershell [powershell]
wsl --shutdown
```

Then, restart your Ubuntu distribution.

```powershell [powershell]
wsl -d Ubuntu # Or Ubuntu-22.04 depending if you install the LTS or a specific version
```

Don't forget to verify that `systemd` is enabled:

```bash [shell]
systemctl
```

To finish, update your packages:

```bash [shell]
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
```

## Install ArmoniK

::alert{type="warning"}
Be careful, you must enable `systemd` support before installing ArmoniK.
::

First, clone the ArmoniK repository (inside your home directory from WSL2 Ubuntu distribution):

```bash [shell]
git clone https://github.com/aneoconsulting/ArmoniK.git
```

Then, you can install ArmoniK following the [Linux installation instructions](../1.linux/0.prerequisites.md).
